Article ID: 25743
Title: Here are the winners of the Samsung-Stomp Inspiring Teachers Awards

This Teachers' Day, Stomp is proud to announce the 10 winners of this year's  Samsung-Stomp Inspiring Teachers Awards . In this month's contest, Stomp received several amazing entries from students whose lives have been changed for the better thanks to the teachers they have had. Here are the judges' choice of winners for the Inspiring Teachers Awards: Top  Story: Miss Goh  moulded  me from rebellious teenager to top student of my cohort Growing up,  Francesca  developed a rebellious streak as her family was going through a tough time. However, her Geography teacher, Miss Shernice Goh (now Mrs Chia) managed to find the right strategy to reign Francesca in so she could reach her best potential. Francesca worked hard and emerged top of her Secondary 2 cohort. Francesca went on to become an educator as well and now teaches at Xingnan Primary School where she is passing on what she has learned and inspiring her own students. In fact, one of her own students Joe Yee  nominated her for the Samsung-Stomp Inspiring Teachers Awards  too. Francesca and Mrs Chia reunited and reminisced over Francesca's journey over tea in the video below. For Francesca's inspiring entry, she and Mrs Chia win a Samsung S9+ worth $1,348 each. Read Francesca's story here . Two entries will each be rewarded with a Samsung Gear Sport worth $448 + dining voucher worth $100 to the teachers and students of the selected stories. Second Prize: I never thought 20 years later my daughter would wear the dress I made in Mrs Chua's class Some teachers leave a lasting impression for years after they first became part of our lives. For  Eza , she never thought that her own daughter would wear the dress she sewed in her home economics class at Bendemeer Secondary School over 20 years ago. Despite initially disliking it, with the help and encouragement of her teacher, Mrs Chua Tan Ai Kiang, she flourished and performed well for her N-levels. For Eza's heartwarming entry, she and Mrs Chua win a Samsung Gear Sport worth $448 + dining voucher worth $100 each. Read  Eza's  story here. Third Prize: I was bullied, joined a gang and was caned -- but  Mr  Pang is the candle in my life Initially on a wayward path fraught with struggles and challenges, Wei Yong decided to change for the better because of Mr Ronnie Pang, who never gave up on him. The 16-year-old Ang Mo Kio Secondary School student shared how he joined a gang in search of friendship and protection, got into fights and threatened his peers into giving him protection money. However, it was wise words from his science and National Police Cadet Corps (NPCC) teacher, 36-year-old Mr Pang, that helped to turn Wei Yong's life around. For Wei Yong's uplifting entry, he and Mr Pang win a Samsung Gear Sport worth $448 + dining voucher worth $100 each. Read Wei Yong's entry here . Tokens  of Appreciation: The following winners walk away with a dining voucher worth $100 for the teachers and students of the selected stories. 1. I used to be afraid of going to school but Cikgu Faiz makes lessons fun Faris, who is in Primary 3 at Jiemin Primary School, was scared of attending school at first but is happy that his Cikgu Faiz has made it a more enjoyable experience. Read Faris's story here. 2. I was desperate, broken and suffering inside -- but Ms Yong saw through me  When Yuan Teng struggled with her studies in the English language in Secondary 4, it was her primary school teacher, Ms Stephanie Yong, whom she turned to. Read Yuan Teng's story here. 3. Life was a deep dark abyss of despair but Mdm Badral made me feel at home Growing up, Presslee has faced many setbacks but the Northlight School student is grateful to his teacher Mdm Badral for helping him to overcome the challenges in his life. Read Presslee's story here. 4. Our N-Level results shocked  Ms  Faekah till she was in tears Jannah still fondly remembers her teacher from Serangoon Garden Secondary School, Ms Faekah, whose wise words she has kept close to her heart even till today. Read Jannah's story here. 5. ITE became 'It's The Effort' thanks to Mrs Goh, now my friend of 21 years Regardless of whether Yanni was struggling in secondary school, the Institute of Technical Education (ITE), polytechnic or in life, it has always been Mrs Lynette Goh whom she turned to. Read Yanni's story here. 6. I had problems fitting in but  Mr  Francis found the leader in me Starting secondary school was hard for Joel, who was involved in bullying and struggled with some subjects. However, his Spectra Secondary School teacher Mr Kevin Francis understood him and encouraged the leader in Joel to come out and shine. Read Joel's story here. 7. Dr Wong helped me find my confidence through singing Luke, 16, is grateful that his Raffles Institution teacher Dr Wong Joon Hwang discovered the singer in him and through music, got him to find his confidence as well. Read Luke's story here. Happy Teachers' Day to all teachers! Read all entries for the contest  here .
