Article ID: 34652
Title: Food processing company fined $5k for improper storage of food and widespread cockroach infestation

Food processing establishment Traditional Kueh Baulu Trading was fined $5,000 by the court on Wednesday (Dec 16) for failing to keep its premises clean and improper storage of food. Singapore Food Agency (SFA) said in a statement that during a routine inspection on April 2, SFA officers uncovered multiple hygiene lapses at the licensee’s premises. These hygiene lapses include widespread cockroach infestation within the premises and structural damages to the floor, wall and ceiling. Other hygiene lapses were poor housekeeping, resulting in presence of cobwebs and dusty walls and improper storage of food and food ingredients. "In the interest of public health, the operating licence of the licensee was suspended by SFA for a total of seven days from April 7 to April 13," said SFA. The suspension was lifted after the licensee had rectified the lapses and took measures to improve the cleanliness of its premises. SFA added that food safety is a joint responsibility as food can be contaminated anywhere along the food chain. "While SFA continues to be vigilant and works to ensure that regulatory measures are in place and properly enforced, the industry and consumers must also play their part," said the agency. "All food operators should ensure that their premises are clean and well-maintained, and staff are adequately trained on proper food safety management. "SFA will take enforcement action against food operators who do not adhere to regulations or comply with food hygiene and food safety requirements." For each offence, the offender is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding $5,000 and, in the case of a continuing offence, to a further fine not exceeding $100 for every day or part thereof during which the offence continues after conviction. Members of the public who come across poor hygiene practices in food establishments are advised not to patronise them and provide feedback via SFA's online feedback form ( www.sfa.gov.sg/feedback ). Alternatively, members of the public can call SFA's Contact Centre at 6805 2871 with details for the follow-up investigations.
