Article ID: 40279
Title: 192 victims lose $162k to scammers pretending to be sellers posting offers on baby products online

At least 192 victims have fallen prey to scammers pretending to be sellers posting offers on baby products online, losing at least $162,000 in the process. The police said in a statement that they have observed a resurgence of such e-commerce scams and remind the public to be discerning when shopping online, especially when ordering baby products. They have received reports lodged against allegedly fraudulent Facebook pages selling food and non-food items, such as 'Shopping Retail' and 'Imported High-Quality Seafood'. Investigations are ongoing. In this variant, scammers pretending to be sellers would entice victims by posting offers on baby products like diapers and strollers either directly or through sponsored advertisements on online platforms such as Facebook. Victims who expressed interest in these deals on Facebook would be requested to contact the sellers directly via Facebook Messenger. After confirming the price and order details, victims would be asked to make payment to the seller's bank account via PayNow. They would only realise they had been scammed when they did not receive the goods and/or the seller becomes uncontactable. The police advise members of the public to adopt the following precautionary measures: ADD - ScamShield App and set security features (e.g., enable two-factor (2FA) or multifactor authentication for banks, social media, Singpass accounts; set transaction limits on internet banking transactions, including PayNow). CHECK - for scam signs with official sources. If the price is too good to be true, it probably is. Purchase only from authorised sellers or reputable sources and be wary of attractive, time-sensitive deals where only limited stocks are available. Avoid making upfront payments to bank accounts belonging to unknown individuals and, whenever possible, avoid making advance payments or direct bank transfers to the seller. Always verify the seller’s profile through customer reviews and ratings. TELL - authorities, family, and friends about this scam so they do not fall for it. Report the fraudulent pages to Facebook. Members of the public may visit www.scamalert.sg or call the anti-scam helpline at 1800-722-6688 for more information on scams. Anyone with information about scams may contact the police at 1800-255-0000 or submit information online to www.police.gov.sg/iwitness.
