Article ID: 45082
Title: 

It was the second fire in Yishun in three days. Firefighters from Yishun Fire Station responded to the fire at Block 431C Yishun Avenue 1 on Sept 20 at about 6.40pm. They conducted forcible entry into a smoke-logged flat on the fourth floor to fight the fire, said the Singapore Civil Defence Force (SCDF) on Facebook.  [Fire @ 431C, Yishun Ave 1] At about 6:40pm this evening, firefighters from Yishun Fire Station responded to a fire at... Posted by Singapore Civil Defence Force on Friday 20 September 2024    There was no one in the unit at the time of the fire, which involved the entire living room area and was extinguished with a water jet. The rest of the unit also sustained heat and smoke damage. Several videos of the fire were posted online. About 100 residents from the third to sixth floor were evacuated by the police and SCDF as a precautionary measure. Two days earlier, a fire broke out in a coffee shop at Block 717 Yishun Street 71. Stomper Wesley shared a video of the fire. There were no reported injuries for both fires and the causes of the fires are under investigation. Nee Soon GRC MP Derrick Goh Soon Hee posted on social media about the latest fire and added that he recently filed a parliamentary questions relating to residential fires related to active mobility devices (AMDs).  [Parliamentary Questions on Physical and Digital Safety] Residents would have read in the media on the fire last night... Posted by Derrick Goh Soon Hee on Saturday 21 September 2024    In a written reply on Sept 10 to Mr Goh's question, Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for Law K Shanmugam said that in the first half of 2024, there were 17 fires in residential premises involving AMDs. The annual number has decreased from 78 incidents in 2019 to 31 and 35 in 2022 and 2023 respectively. Since June 2021, businesses and individuals must obtain approval from Land Transport Authority (LTA) to import power-assisted bicycles (PABs) and motorised personal mobility device (PMDs) into Singapore. These devices must meet the prescribed technical and safety requirements before they can be used on our public paths and roads. The LTA also conducts enforcement operations against non-compliant AMD users as well as errant retailers. Between 2020 and 2023, LTA detected around 5,100 offences involving non-compliant AMD devices on paths and roads and about 100 violations by retailers. Non-compliant devices are immediately seized and enforcement action taken. Mr Shanmugam added: "The Active Mobility Fire Safety Taskforce, co-chaired by the Land Transport Authority and SCDF, will continue its public education efforts on the dangers of using non-compliant devices, proper usage and safety tips, as well as how to dispose of motorised AMDs in a safe and responsible manner."
