Article ID: 45116
Title: Driver crashes BMW into tree in Seletar and abandons car, police trace and arrest him

A BMW driver was arrested after getting into accident and abandoning his car in Seletar, said the police in a news release on Sept 24. The police were alerted on May 9 at about 3.40am to the accident where the car had collided with a tree at Seletar Aerospace Way. When the police arrived, the driver was not at the scene. He was eventually traced and established to be a 43-year-old man. He admitted to losing control of his white BMW X4 and did not report the accident to the police. The car was also found to be affixed with a number plate that was not registered. His offences are driving without due care and attention, failing to stop after an accident, being the person in charge to cause the vehicle to remain at rest in a position likely to cause danger to other road users and failing to exhibit the correct registration plate of vehicle. In a similar case, the police were alerted on May 30 at about 3.30am to an accident involving a car that had collided into a road directional sign at Seletar West Link. When the police arrived, the driver was not at the scene. He was eventually traced and established to be a 40-year-old man, who admitted to losing control of his car and did not report the accident to the police. His offences are driving without due care and attention, failing to stop after an accident and being the person in charge to cause the vehicle to remain at rest in a position likely to cause danger to other road users. Both men were be charged in court on Sept 25. The offence of driving without due care and attention carries a fine of up to $1,500, or a jail term of up to six months, or both. The offence of failing to stop after an accident carries a fine of up to $1,000, or a jail term of up to three months or both. The offence of being the person in charge of a vehicle causes the vehicle to remain at rest on any road which is likely to cause danger or obstruction to other users of the road carries a fine of up to $2,000, or a jail term of up to three months, or both. The offence of failing to exhibit correct identification mark as assigned at the front and rear of vehicle carries a fine of up to $1,000, or a jail term of up to three months, or both.
