Article ID: 45185
Title: 

A woman broke both her ankles in a fall at a washing bay in the void deck of Block 458B Sengkang West Way. To add insult to injury, the insurer for Ang Mo Kio Town Council (AMKTC) rejected her claim as the town council was not liable for her injury. Disputing this, Stomper Annabel shared photos to show that after her injury, yellow lines were painted around the washing bay. She said: "Ang Mo Kio Town Council admitted negligence by fixing the issue but rejected my claim." In an email to the Stomper, the insurer said: "You have alleged that there is no yellow marking to indicate it is a washing bay area and the visibility is dark in the daytime. "After our investigation with the insured, we found that all safety measures and precautions were in place and the washing bay was clearly visible to public. "The design of the washing bay was built since December 2018 by the HDB and as far as AMKTC is concerned, they have not breached their standard of care and they cannot be held legally liable for your injuries. "We regret to inform that we cannot accept responsibility for this unfortunate incident. We wish to state that it is the responsibility of all individuals to ensure their own safety by being aware of their surroundings, especially when moving around potential hazard areas." The incident happened on May 5, two days before the Stomper was to start a new job. "I broke both my ankles. My right ankle was displaced, also known as a Weber B fracture. I was operated on May 7 at Sengkang General Hospital and rehabilitated at Sengkang Community Hospital from May 10 to June 18," recounted the Stomper. She said the washing bay was placed dangerously between a sheltered walkway and the lift lobby. "It was not a short cut. The town council failed to alert residents to the danger. They painted the yellow lines only after I reported my injury and requested compensation." Her hospital bills came to a total of about $600. That's not including X-ray, orthopaedic consultation, physiotherapy and other expenses. In response to a Stomp query, the spokesperson for AMKTC said: "Upon receiving the claim on May 7, our Property Team promptly conducted a site assessment on May 8 and referred the matter to our appointed insurer on May 9. "On July 22, following a thorough investigation, the insurer informed the claimant that the claim was denied, concluding that the incident was fortuitous and resulted from a lack of proper lookout by the third party. "Since July, the claimant has continued to dispute the insurer's assessment, and we have ensured that our insurer remains engaged with the claimant to address her concern. "As part of our commitment to residents’ safety, we have also taken proactive steps by painting yellow lines around the washing bay as an additional precautionary measure.” Five months after the incident, the Stomper said she is still unable walk steadily. "Hence, I am afraid to go out, especially back to the place where I had the trauma," she told Stomp. "I experience swelling and pain, sometimes with intense itch, every night. I can't go up the stairs for more than three storeys and going downstairs is not possible at all due to intense pain and stiffness. I am definitely not able to take public transport during peak hours at the moment. "The physiotherapist is encouraging yet patient. The problem is also that I am 51 years old and may take a long time to recover. I estimate by mid-November, I should be better." The Stomper spends the painful sleepless nights worrying about the spoilt food in her refrigerator, inconveniencing the friends who helped her and the long gap in her resume. She said: "I have written to the job agency that found me the job I had to give up. I can start to apply for jobs and am available to start work mid-November."
