Article ID: 47880
Title: YES 933 DJ Hazell Teo and pianist James Wong get engaged after surprise proposal in Qingdao

Dorcas LimThe Straits TimesJune 8, 2025 Wedding bells will soon be ringing for local DJ Hazelle Teo and pianist James Wong. On June 6, Teo, a DJ at Mediacorp’s Chinese-language radio station YES 933, wrote a collaborative post on Instagram with her now-fiance Wong, saying: “This feels so right. We feel so right. The rest of our lives feels so right.” The pair first met in 2024 when Teo, 31, reached out to Wong, 24, who is also a content creator, for a collaboration. This featured Wong on the piano, while Teo sang a mash-up of American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift’s hits Love Story (2008) and Enchanted (2010). The proposal took place in the Chinese port city of Qingdao, where Wong surprised Teo in her hotel room on the final night of her week-long work trip. In her post, Teo wrote that she arrived at the hotel at 1am, ready to rest before heading to the airport at 6am. “But when I opened the door, I was greeted by soft orange lighting, lots of flowers, someone holding a camera, plenty of confusion... and then I saw my then-boyfriend (now fiance, lol) standing there nervously.” In the series of photographs uploaded on Instagram, a petal-adorned candle-lit walkway was seen leading to a bouquet of flowers in the centre of the room. The set-up was complete with a heart-shaped cake with the words, “Marry Me”. According to Teo, Wong had helped her apply for additional leave after the work trip, and had also prepared extra clothes for the rest of their time in Qingdao. “He planned it all – quietly, sweetly, thoughtfully – and it turned out to be even more beautiful than I ever imagined.” Wong subsequently left a comment on his fiancee’s post, quipping: “As a wedding pianist, I’ve always been part of other people’s special day. Today, my turn is here. Thank you everybody.” Fellow YES 933 DJ Kunhua left his well-wishes for the couple in the comments section, adding that he can finally tell everyone why he returned from China alone. Other friends in the industry, including 987FM DJ Sonia Chew and YES 933 DJ Zhu Zeliang, have also posted congratulatory messages for the couple. Besides being a DJ, Teo hosts events. She has also dabbled in acting, playing supporting roles in dramas such as Die Die Also Must Serve (2018) and Babies On Board (2018).
