Article ID: 48619
Title: 

Efforts to restore Tanjong Katong Road South are progressing steadily after a sinkhole opened up on July 26 and swallowed a car. In an update on July 28, national water agency PUB said it has been working around the clock to stabilise the ground and make the road safe for public use again. The recovery process involved several steps: Backfilling the construction shaft at the nearby Deep Tunnel Sewerage System (DTSS) site, draining water from the sinkhole, removing the car using a crane, and then filling the hole with liquefied stabilised soil (LSS). LSS is a mixture of soil, water and cement that flows easily and hardens over time. It is commonly used to fill underground voids and does not require mechanical compaction, which helps speed up the process. To ensure the area is safe, PUB is also conducting rigorous tests and scans to detect underground cavities and check the stability of the ground. These include: PUB said it is working closely with the Building and Construction Authority (BCA) and the Land Transport Authority (LTA) to conduct thorough safety assessments before reopening the road. "We seek the public’s continued understanding and patience during this period," it added. "We are working round-the-clock to expedite the recovery of the road. "We apologise for the inconvenience caused to residents and motorists." Several Stompers alerted Stomp earlier to the shocking incident that left a gaping hole in the middle of the road. The female driver, who was the sole occupant of the vehicle, managed to exit the car and was pulled to safety by quick-thinking workers on site using a nylon rope. Separately, Stomper Lee shared a video he took while driving along Mountbatten Road in the early hours of July 26. "I was driving along Mountbatten Road at about 1.32am when I saw from a distance what I thought was SCDF putting out a car fire, he said. "As I got closer, I realised that it was probably a burst water pipe and possibly linked to the sinkhole incident." View more photos in the gallery.
