Article ID: 49148
Title: Large dog confined to service balcony of 35th-floor Toa Payoh flat now under NParks care

Rhea YasmineThe Straits TimesSeptember 3, 2025 A large dog that was confined to a service balcony in a Toa Payoh flat has been removed from the home and is now under the care of the National Parks Board (NParks). NParks’ group director of enforcement and investigation, Ms Jessica Kwok, said that the board is in touch with the dog’s owner and investigations are ongoing. She said NParks was alerted on Sept 1 to an Alaskan malamute that was confined to the service balcony of a 35th-floor HDB unit in Toa Payoh “in a potentially dangerous way”. NParks officers inspected the unit the same day and found the dog in cramped conditions on the service balcony, said Ms Kwok. “Given the unsafe housing conditions and concerns over the dog’s welfare, NParks seized the dog. The dog is well and currently under our care,” she said. In a nine-second video posted to Facebook page Chained Dog Awareness in Singapore on Sept 1 at 5.07pm, the dog is seen on the service balcony trying to fit its head through the panels of a louvre window leading indoors. Failing to fit itself through the window, the dog then paws at one of the window panels, as though attempting to dig its way through. According to a 5.53pm post on the page the same day, the dog had been removed by NParks. The malamute, the state dog of Alaska in the United States, can range between 58cm and 64cm tall. It is not an approved breed for HDB residential flats. Ms Kwok said in her statement that pet owners must be responsible and provide appropriate care throughout their pet’s lifetime. “Pet owners are reminded to fulfil the standard of care for their pets, ensure the pet’s shelter is safe and provide suitable food and water regularly,” she said. According to the Code of Animal Welfare for Pet Owners, which specifies the standards of pet care, pets must be kept in an area that is large enough for it to move around comfortably and that is safe so that the animal cannot easily escape or be released accidentally. Ms Kwok said NParks will continue to raise awareness about responsible pet ownership and reinforce the commitment required in owning a pet. She added that NParks’ efforts include reaching out to different segments of the public through events, talks, roving exhibition panels, school plays, and resource packages for schools, and working closely with stakeholders, such as animal welfare groups and veterinarians.
