Article ID: 49144
Title: 

Rectification works are underway after a sprinkler pipe burst in City Square Mall on the evening of Sept 3. Stomper Bryan shared videos of brownish water gushing out of the pipe at the KFC outlet.  Stomper Eddie shared a video showing the water-logged basement and tunnel leading to Farrer Park MRT station. "A huge flood in the basement of the mall," said Eddie. "The fire alarm went off twice. KFC was especially hit." Stomper Lee alerted Stomp to one of multiple videos of the incident posted online. City Square Mall posted on Facebook on the morning of Sept 4: "Dear shoppers, we are sincerely sorry for the inconvenience that the burst sprinkler pipe caused last evening. "Your safety and comfort is important to us. "Following the incident, rectification works at the affected units are underway but most outlets at B1 and B2 remain open for business. "We are doing our utmost to support our affected tenants." In a media reply, a spokesperson for the mall said they were alerted to the incident at about 7.40pm, reported The Straits Times. “Within minutes, the operations and security teams began redirecting traffic from the affected area while the cleaning team was activated to begin clearing the affected area,” the spokesperson said. “Our operations team deployed to the area identified the source to be a dislodged sprinkler pipe, and the related pump was promptly deactivated.” The spokesperson said the mall’s operations team was working closely with relevant parties to investigate the cause of the burst pipe and carry out repairs. “Efforts are also under way to reinstate the affected units as quickly as possible to minimise disruption to our tenants’ businesses,” the spokesperson said. SBS Transit spokeswoman Grace Wu said staff from Farrer Park station assisted passengers while cleaners cleaned and dried up the affected part of the passageway. “Our train service and station operations were not affected except for an escalator that was shut down as a safety precaution,” she said.
