Article ID: 49269
Title: Unlicensed lorry driver caused wall to collapse at Tuas dorm, killing co-worker walking by

Nadine ChuaThe Straits TimesSept 12, 2025 While reversing a lorry without paying attention, a construction company driver hit a gate in Tuas, causing the attached wall to collapse and killing a man who was walking by at the time. On Sept 12, Ashokan Santhoshsivam pleaded guilty to driving without due care and attention and not having the requisite licence to drive the lorry. The 24-year-old was sentenced to eight months’ jail, fined $800 and disqualified from driving for eight years from his date of release. Assistant Public Prosecutor Chye Jer Yuan said the incident took place on May 12, 2024. At around 2.50am that morning, Ashokan and two others left their dormitory and drove to a food stall for supper. But the stall was closed, so Ashokan drove them back despite having only a Class 3 driving licence, instead of the Class 4 required to drive a lorry. When the men reached their dormitory at Tech Park Crescent, Ashokan reversed the lorry without due care and attention, hitting a gate. As a result, the attached wall collapsed on a pathway, killing Zaw Lin Tun, a 34-year-old Burmese man who was walking by. Mr Zaw, a construction worker, worked at the same company as Ashokan. An autopsy report listed head and neck injuries as the cause of death. Another man walking nearby also suffered injuries to his leg. The prosecutor said the lorry did not have an in-vehicle camera installed and there was no video footage of the accident. Mr Chye urged the court to impose a jail term of nine to 10½ months, a fine of $1,000 and a disqualification from driving for eight years. “He had driven the lorry for a distance with passengers, knowing that he did not have the requisite driving licence. By driving the lorry without an insurance policy, the accused exposed victims or potential victims of traffic accidents to be left without any compensation,” the prosecutor said. For causing death while driving a vehicle without due care and attention, a first-time offender can be jailed for up to three years or fined up to $10,000 or both.
