Article ID: 51493
Title: Neighbour allegedly shouts \'racial slurs\' when toddler makes noise in corridor, mum lodges police report

A Paya Lebar condominium resident has made a police report over alleged verbal abuse by her neighbour. Stomper KN wants to share the "deeply distressing" case of ongoing racial harassment. "For the past two months, my immediate neighbour who shares the same lift corridor has repeatedly shouted racial slurs at us, especially when my three-year-old child speaks while walking through the corridor," said the Stomper, a Singapore permanant resident who has lived in the condo for nine years. "The neighbour also becomes verbally abusive whenever children visit our home." The mother of a three-year-old boy shared a Sept 16 video of the family returning home and the neighbour can be heard shouting: "F***ing selfish, your child can scream, people's child cannot scream." The Stomper said: "We have been extremely careful not to cause disturbance – keeping our voices low, avoiding the corridor and even taking the fire exit to prevent confrontation. Despite this, the verbal abuse has continued. "Although I do not have direct video evidence, several mothers and children have personally witnessed these incidents on multiple occasions, including during one recent instance where the shouting caused children to cry." The most recent incident was on Nov 2 and she said that she has made a police report, which the police confirmed in response to a query by Stomp. The Stomper added: "The MCST has also been informed, and I have requested mediation, but the neighbour has refused to participate." She said the situation has caused tremendous emotional distress. "I no longer feel safe in my own home and have had to teach my toddler not to speak outside the house out of fear," lamented the Stomper. "I am genuinely afraid this could escalate into a serious incident – similar to the tragic Yishun case where an innocent life was lost. My only wish is to keep my child and myself safe until we move out in two months when our lease ends. "I hope by sharing this, more awareness can be brought to families who silently endure such harassment and the importance of stronger protection for residents facing racial abuse in private estates." The Yishun case refers to the killing Ms Nguyen Phuong Tra, 30, at Block 323 Yishun Central on Sept 24. Koh Ah Hwee, 66, was charged for her murder. The neighbours were believed to have been in the midst of trying to resolve their differences over noise complaints when the woman was killed. The Ministry of Law and Ministry of National Development said in a joint statement on Sept 27 that Ms Tra had applied for mediation with her neighbour in June. But it did not proceed because Koh did not respond.
